
Rudra Gnawali 
                                      
 
 
 
Objective: 
 
To obtain a position with an academic research institution, company, industry that is involved in manufacture, 
synthesis and design for advanced materials in science, technology, health and medical areas. 
 
Experience: 
 
University of Memphis                                                            Memphis, Tennessee. 
Teaching Assistant and Research Assistant                                            Jan. 2012 – Dec 2013. 
 
Taught Physics and Conceptual Lab, a class of 100 undergraduate students. Prepared exams conducted grading 
and project preparation for Physics and Engineering students. 
 
Banaras Hindu University, India                                  Varanasi, India 
Graduate Assistant/ Research Assistant                                       2007-2009 
Taught B.Sc lab and was involved in research with the combination of Material industries and scientific 
instruments companies. Fabricated Carbon Nanotubes using Chemical Vapor Deposition (CVD) method. Learned 
about magneto-resistance and high temperature superconductivity on YBa2Cu3O7 and a number of experimental 
techniques for characterization of the materials such as XRD, AFM, SEM, TEM, UV-VIS NIR 
 
Tribhuvan University, Patan Multiple Campus                                                             Kathmandu, Nepal. 
Assistant Lecturer                        Aug. 2009 – Dec. 2011 
 
Taught a class of forty graduate students of Classical Mechanic and Biomedical Physics.  Was actively involved 
as a supervisor for graduate student’s project work in achieving their M.Sc. degree. 
 
Golden Gate International College                                       Kathmandu, Nepal 
Lecturer                                                 Aug.2009 – Dec.2011 
 
Taught basic Physics to 11th and 12th grade students. Delivered lectures in areas of Electricity and Magnetism, 
Heat, Thermodynamics and Mechanics. Prepared yearly plan for lab classes, project works and coordination for 
Physics classes. 
 
St. Xavier College Maitighar                                         Kathmandu,Nepal 
Assistant Lecturer                       Jun. 2009 – Oct. 2011. 
Taught a class of sixty graduate students of Bio Medical Physics and conducted advanced Lab. 
 
University of Memphis                    Memphis, Tennessee. 
Material Lab Coordinator                     Jan. 2012 – Dec. 2013. 
Handled instruments such as:  ESR, FTIR, TSL, UV-VIS, NIR, XRD, VSM, and AFM 
Tested medical grade polymers used in implant devices. Conducted tests on these materials concentrating 
primarily on free radical analysis using a variety of techniques such as UV-Vis-NIR spectrophotometry, FTIR, 
Thermoluminescence, and Electron Spin Resonance (ESR). Explored information about medical graded 
biomaterials specifically Polycarbonate Urethane (PCU) and Poly Ether Ether Keton (PEEK) for their use in hip 
and knee replacements. Conducted tests of free radicals using ESR. Also involved in projects involving magnetic 
Nanomaterial such as, synthesis and characterization of exchange-coupled Pr2Co7-FeNi nanocomposite, and 
template based synthesis of high coercivity SrFe12O19 ferrites. Performed structural, phase and morphology 
characterization of prepared samples using XRD, TEM and SEM, using vibrating sample magnetometer (VSM) 
and using DSC and TGA to study the thermal properties, the phase transition. Used UV-VIS spectrometer, 
Raman spectrometer, ESR and FTIR for spectral analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 

12516 Audelia Road, 
Apt # 906 

Dallas, TX 75243   

Phone (239) 331-9453 
Email: gyawali.rudra@gmail.com 

rgnawali@memphis.edu 

 



Research Activities: 
 

 “Thermoluminescence in UV and X-irradiated Polyetheretherketone (PEEK)” at Society for Biomaterials 
Meetings, Boston, Massachusetts, April 2013. 

 

 “Detection of thermally stimulated luminescence in Polyetheretherketone (PEEK)” at International PEEK 
Meeting, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, April 2013. 

 

 “Effects of irradiation on optical and thermo-luminescence properties of medical grade 
Polycarbonateurethane (PCU). Accepted for Poster presentation SFB meeting 2014. Denver CO. 

 

 “Effects of irradiation on optical and thermo-luminescence properties of medical grade 
Polycarbonateurethane (PCU). Under review. 

 

 “ESR and FTIR study on medical grade Polycarbonateurethane (PCU)”. Paper under review at 
Kathmandu Journal, Nepal. 

 

 “Radiation effects on medical grade Polycarbonateurethane (PCU)”. Paper published on 
http://umwa.memphis.edu/etd/. 

 

 “X-irradiated Polyetheretherketone (PEEK): Thermoluminescence observations with DSC correlation” 
Accepted for SFB conference 2014 Denver CO. 

 

 “X-Ray and UV-induced free radicals in Polycarbonateurethane (PCU). Accepted for SFB conference 
2014 Denver CO. 
 

Conferences and Presentations: 
 

 Attended a two day seminar on “New trends of research in physics” at Banaras Hindu University (BHU), 

India in 2007. 

 Participated at symposium on spectroscopic studies, BHU, India in 2008. 

 Attended international conference on “Disorder, complexity and biology II” (DISCOMB), January 2009, 

India. 

 Presented poster on topic “Reentrant phase transition on ferroelectric liquid crystal” at (DISCOMB) 

International conference India 2009 

 Participated in an International conference on “Frontier’s of physics” (ICFP), June 2009, Kathmandu, 

Nepal. 

 Attended a meeting on “Soft matter physics” March, 2010 at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), India. 

 Attended a workshop at Amrit science campus, Kathmandu, 2011 

 Participated in an International conference on” Society of Biomaterials” Boston, MA 2013 

Achievements: 
 

 Received an award of Rs. 50,000 ($700) from district education foundation, Government of Nepal for high 

score in general knowledge competition at district level in 1998 

 

 Received a grant of Rs. 60,000 ($800) for “Training in Medical transcriptionist” from the Ministry of 

Education, Government of Nepal in 2002 

 

 Received a grant undergraduate full fellowship for three years Bachelor in science from Tribhuvan 

University, Kathmandu in 2003. 

 

 Received an award of “Graduate Fellowship” from Indian embassy Kathmandu, Nepal in 2007. 

 

 Teaching and Research assistantship from The University of Memphis, TN in Jan 2012 –Dec 2013 




 
Education  

 BSC Physics, Math - Tribhuvan University Nepal. 

 MSC Physics (Solid State specialization) – Banaras Hindu University (BHU), India 

 MS Physics (Material Science Concentration)- University of Memphis, TN, USA 

 
Professional Training: 
 

 Software engineering                                                                  2002 - 2003 
College of software Engineering Kathmandu (Affiliated by MICROSOFT CO, USA) 
 

 Medical transcriptionist (3 month course)                                   2002 
Lord Buddha education foundation, Maitidevi, Kathmandu, Nepal 
 

Skills: 
 

 FORTAN 77/90 ,Visual C++ , Matlab 

 Database management (SQL) and web page designing. 

 

References: 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Dr. Sanjay Mishra 

Professor 

University of Memphis, TN, 

srmishra@memphis.edu 

 

Abdul Wahid Pualo 

Civil Engineer 

9737 Amberton Parkway 

Dallas Texas 

abdul.pulao@att.net 

 

 

Dr. M.Shah Jahan 

Professor 

University of Memphis, TN 
mjahan@memphis.edu 


