
Arun Deepak Ramalingom Pillai
Software Engineer
arama004@odu.edu 


Software Developer 
1 year of software development experience includes the .NET Framework and associated technologies such as ASP.Net, ADO.NET, C, C++, C#, JavaScript, CSS, HTML and Windows Communication Foundation (WCF) Services.  Oracle database experience in writing SQL procedures/queries. 
6 months of assembly language programming experience that includes design and simulation of Reduced Instruction Set Computing (RISC) architectures.
2 years of experience working independently and in team settings, maintaining relationships with clients, gaining knowledge in group dynamics and situational leadership skills, and accomplishing team goals beyond customer expectations.
2 years of experience with troubleshooting, collection, documentation and analyzing of data.
EXPERIENCE

ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING LAB/ODU, Norfolk, VA	August 2012 – Present
HARDWARE DEVELOPER/RESEARCHER 
Working with Computer Engineering Research team in the simulation and design of Reduced Instruction Set Computing (RISC) architectures to evaluate the impact of different architectural designs.
Developing parallel programming algorithms and Dynamic Random-Access Memory (DRAM) designs to reduce latency while simultaneously improving performance.
Implementing micro-architecture models and diagrams utilizing the Altera DE2-115 Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) board to understand hardware constraints during design implementation.
Conducted class seminars and group conferences to provide mentorship and guidance to students on the numerous design and programming methodologies for microcontrollers.
Developing in VHSIC Hardware Description Language (VHDL) and Register-Transfer Level (RTL) codes for implementation and simulation of RISC architecture using the Quartus v.13.1 and Aldec v.9.1 software applications.

COGNIZANT TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS, Chennai, India	July 2011 – June 2012
SYSTEMS ENGINEER/SYSTEM ANALYST
Developed multiple, modular objects and a messaging interface to create a software package that allowed secure access to customer banking details.
Worked with lead programmers on the Telecommunication Systems team in support of a project that consolidated and managed client databases and web applications.
Constructed WCF and ASMX web-services responsible for communicating and providing real time data from/to back-end database to/from client application.
Created database tables and procedures for proper maintenance and updating of user data.
Wrote SQL and PL/SQL queries to retrieve the required data from the database for various projects.
Researched software issues, performed defect corrections, and provided recommended solutions based on code and systems analysis.
Utilized ASP.Net, ADO.NET, C, C++, C#, JavaScript (jQuery), CSS, and HTML in .NET Framework 4.0 for the development of banking and finance technologies.


Researched evolving technologies in the design and implementation of application infrastructure for scalability, reliability, availability and serviceability to identify the tradeoffs and risks associated with   each technology.
Researched on the creation and maintenance of conceptual, logical and physical models that include context diagrams, data flow diagrams, process flow diagrams, data dictionaries and logical flow charts.
EDUCATION
· Master of Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering
Old Dominion University, Norfolk, VA
May 2014 (expected graduation date)		GPA:  3.85
· Bachelor of Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering
Anna University, Chennai, India
May 2011					GPA:  3.6+ (converted)

AWARDS
Received travel grant for presenting at the International Electrochemical Society (ECS) 2013 conference.
Member of the team which won the first place at Virginia Microelectronics Consortium (VMEC) Conference 2013.
Received cash award for meritorious academic achievement.
Represented school technical team at Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO) district meet.
Received state level awards for representing college in annual sports meet.
REFERENCES
	AVAILABLE ON REQUEST

page 
1
 of
  2
(757) 376 - 8340
809 Oglesby Court, VA Beach, VA 23464
