
My career path has given me the opportunity to work for agencies involved in advances and 
improvements in an assortment of technologies.  I lead groups with different skill sets and diverse 
backgrounds to analyze, plan, and develop software, hardware, and network elements in support of 
telecommunications and Information Systems (IS) enterprise.  I have been involved with teams that 
evaluate projects to establish the vision, desires, and requirements for the public community and private 
sectors.  My natural leadership competencies and experience have shaped my strategy and overall 
approach to facilitate a clear course of action that meet the mission objectives and answers questions 
about the organizations and businesses desires.

As I mentioned, I have worked in environments with a mixture of cultures, diverse business models, 
numerous organizational structures, and different leadership styles.  I have found myself in situations 
where political "storms" tend to direct a mission.  These “storms” tend to slow down major system 
development and cause the revamping of budgets.  I have also seen where the political aim can also 
assist with funding and move the project forward.  In either case, we do need the political influence to 
help all stakeholders understand how, why, and what of a project.

One example was a high visibility project, I was responsible for planning, integration, and testing of 
networks and Radio Frequency (RF) systems and to logistically move an existing infrastructure and 
Network Operations Center (NOC) from one local city to another.  I was in charge of assembling 
personnel and resources to support internal and external clients and stakeholders while considering a 
limited budget and high expectations.  I spent a lot of time reevaluating the mission's requirements, 
value, and objectives due to management's almost continuously change in direction.

In order to overcome this venture, I believe in teamwork and in order to influence others you have to 
have a game plan.  Success starts with knowing myself, understanding individual's ability, and 
recognize the available resources.  One phrase that comes to mind is “open communication”.  I have 
learned over the years that team members, users, and stakeholders like to be kept up to date on how 
objectives are being met throughout the life of a project.  I believe the way I communicate, including 
nonverbal, influences how the community perceives my effort and displays the care I have for the 
mission.  Depending on what segment of the community I have to address decides my approach.  For 
example, with team members I was more informal face-to-face and more formal with users and 
stakeholders.  I have communicated to team members and stakeholders many times, in many forms 
throughout my career.  I try to mimic leading from former mentors and leaders I admirer.  I try to live 
by my expression, "...win with what you have and be fair..."  Knowing your individual team members 
are key to creating an environment that is dynamic.

The mission was a success because I employed project management and systems engineering 
methodologies and tools.  I try to share my knowledge and experience to as many team members as I 
can.  I emphasize equality to all team members, encourage versatility, and high level of focus with 
strong work ethics.  I try to find a way to interpret the technical and pragmatic characteristics into 
language that explains the logical reasoning for the project and the benefits it will bring to all 
stakeholders.


