
Sagar Sangraula 

27 Basswood Ave, Sudbury, MA-01776 

781-738-8617 

sangrasr@mail.uc.edu 

 

Summary  
 Enthusiastic planner with focus on environmental and transportation planning and knowledge 

of broader aspects of planning and architecture 

 Expertise and professional experience in AutoCAD, ArcGIS, Adobe Creative Suite (Photoshop, 
Illustrator, InDesign), Google SketchUp, and documentation and presentation with Microsoft 
Office (Word, Excel, and PowerPoint) 

 Solid background in Architecture that provides strong knowledge of urban design aspects of 
planning 

 Professional experience and exposure working in project management, schedule and team 
environments 

Education  

Masters in Community Planning 

School of Planning, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH. 

 

2013 

 
Bachelors of Architecture 

Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk Campus, Lalitpur, Nepal 

Thesis Title: “The Experience Football Project” 

2009 

  
 

  
 

Professional Experience 
 

Planning Intern 
Office of Planning, Design and Construction, University of Cincinnati 

 Assisted Senior Planner in various Campus Planning assignments by doing 
research, prototype, design, documentation and presentation. 

 Conducted research of peer academic institutes to compare and review space 
standards and guidelines, and current trends in higher education. 

 Research and prototype on various building functions and space standards to 
propose design schemes. 

 Conducted study of various space relocation and renovation within the university 
campus using AutoCAD and Microsoft Excel. 

 Participated in updating and cross-checking of Space Management database. 

2011-2013 

 Architect 

Stupa Designers and Associates, Kathmandu, Nepal  

 Designed various building types (residences, commercial complexes, resort, 
community housing) 

 Prepared working, electrical, and sanitary drawings using AutoCAD. 

 3D modeling and visualization of design concepts using Google SketchUp. 

 Site measurements and survey with teams of peer architects and clients. 

 Presentation and report preparation to clients and senior management. 

2009-2011 

 Part Time Architect 

Archetype Design Consult P. Ltd., Kathmandu, Nepal  

 Updated the working and architectural drawings of Lumbini, designated World 
Heritage Site by UNESCO, for Lumbini Area Development Trust (LADT). 

2008-2009 



 Intern 

Pashupati Area Development Trust, Kathmandu, Nepal  

 Participated in renovation project of Panchadeval Sattal, a 19th century structure of 
cultural importance, in Pashupatinath Temple in Kathmandu. 

2007 

 Trainee Architect 

Design Consultants, Lalitpur, Nepal 

 Worked on various architectural projects ranging from residential buildings to 
commercial complexes under the supervision of Chief Architect Shakti Man 
Dongol. 

 

2007 

Trainings and Workshops 
  Masters Capstone project on “Revitalization of the Village of Morrow, Ohio.” Awarded the 

Director’s Choice Awards in DAAP Works 2013. 

 Comprehensive Plan Update for the City of Bellevue, Kentucky as part of an academic practice in 
School of Planning, University of Cincinnati. 

 Preparation of Integrated Bike and Pedestrian Plan with Connecting Active Communities 
Coalition (CACC), Ohio for a study area of eight coordinated sub-regions in the city of 
Cincinnati. 

 Independent Study Research on Transportation Planning: Research and graphic representation of 
transportation modes and policies at the cities of Cincinnati, USA; Curitiba, Brazil; and Bordeaux, 
France.  

 Independent Study Research on Transportation Planning: Research on “Policies and politics around 
transportation and energy choices and the land use that reacts to the impetus to the transportation and energy 
realities and possible future.” 

 Water Supply and Management in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India for the course Management of 
Urban Environment in Developing Nations. 

 Training on ArcGIS 9 and its applications in planning at School of Planning, University of 
Cincinnati. 

 Training on Adobe Creative Suite and its applications in planning at School of planning, 
University of Cincinnati.  

 Participated in "Sustainable Land Re-Use Tools for Practitioners" organized by US EPA ORD National 
Risk Management Research Laborotary, Cincinnati, OH on April 19, 2012. 

 Participated in each Annual ASA Architectural Exhibitions held at Department of Architecture, 
IOE from 2003-2009. 

 Volunteered in interior design of the Home and Decor Expo 2007 at DECC, UWTC, 
Tripureshwor under supervision of Professor Madhura Karki. 

 Training on AutoCAD 2000 at Continuing Education Division, Institute of Engineering, Lalitpur, 
Nepal. 

 

Leadership Roles 
  Led the “Environment and Infrastructure” team in the project to update the Comprehensive Plan 

for the City of Bellevue, Kentucky and presented to the city residents as part of the community 
charrette. 

 Worked as a Desktop Coordinator in Vaastu Vol. 9 (2007), an annual publication by Association 
of Students of Architecture, Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk Campus. 

 Actively involved in the organizing committee in 9th ASA Exhibition, 2006 Organized by 
Association of Students of Architecture, Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk Campus. 

 

 

LinkedIn Profile: www.linkedin.com/pub/sagar-sangraula/63/b49/930/ 

 



